---
layout: post
title: Birth of a Titan
permalink: /stories/titan
---


An edited video plays in front of Jones.  A man, about his own age, does many pullups, all with perfect form.  Then he pushes a ton of weight on the bench.  And finally, he does crunches upside down, hanging on the pullup bar he used earlier with his feet.  All the while, the man glistens with sweat, beads of saltwater sliding down his defined abs.  How beautiful this is!  This video plays in the middle of a dance performance, but moving these weights were a more visceral, more passionate form of dance than any he had ever seen.

Of course, Jones had known about weightlifting before.  In fact, as a teenager, his father had introduced it to him.  

“You have to get stronger, Jones,” said his father, “you are now nearly a grown man.  Perhaps technology has made physical strength less important than it was in my day, but being a strong man will always be valued, no manner the times.”

And Jones never really listened to his dad.  Jones never found weightlifting to be much fun.  There were no frills: no points, no ball, no strategy, no opponent.  There was only the simplest objective you could think of: move this mass.  Hidden in this simplicity was the obligation, or maybe more precisely stated, the compulsion to be in a good mindset.  It was impossible to lie to the weights.  If Jones was not serious enough, the weights would know it, and refuse to move.  Jones could not cheat the weights.

Jones always considered himself a clever person.  The straightforward nature of weightlifting, therefore, never appealed to him.  He did other things to get his exercise: namely, sports.  Sports allowed strategy, and allowed him to strategize and find shortcuts to succeed.  

Perhaps Jones had made the wrong judgement about lifting.  He had viewed it from the wrong perspective: the weights were not the opponent, the way opposite teams are opponents in sports.  The weights are friends.  The weights are there to help accent and decorate your movements, which are basic.  But basic movements can be dance too.  Weightlifting contains the most basic movements of all.  And in that sense, it can be considered the most basic of dance, the fundamental dance, or the primordial dance.

“Jones! Did you enjoy the show?” a dance company member asks him.

“Yeah, it was really great!  You guys were awesome!” Jones replies.

He continues to mingle with the dance company.  After all, most of them are his friends.  He had come to support them more than he had come to watch the show.  Indeed, he was never a big fan of going to shows, but this time too many asked him to come to say no; and a few other of his friends asked to go with him.  Jones is weak-willed socially, so of course he caved after a few people pestered him.

Soon enough, the social climbing session is over, and Jones makes a beeline for the gym.  At this point, it is more than just his mind making him go.  His body needs the weights.  He needs to place his hands around the bar, and pump out repetitions.  

Jones finds himself in front of a mirror, a dumbbell in each hand.  Jones begins to lift his first weights in a long while.
…
People (mostly straight guys) find themselves inside the gym for many different reasons.  Many (see: overwhelming majority) of them do it to become more attractive to girls.  One of these people is Terrence.

“Did you just go as hard as you could the first time you had been at the gym in years?” Terrence asked.

Jones groans as he tries to move off his bed and get up.  He succeeds, and walks out to the common room of the dorm.  

“Yeah, I guess.”

“HAHAHAHAHA!  I knew it, you dumb casual.”

Jones groans again, as he struggles to lift his backpack off the ground.  

“I’m going to go to class.  See you,” Jones says.

“Alright!  But you should remember to eat up.  Your body needs to recover!” Terrence yells as Jones exits.

Perhaps Jones should have gone to class, but his feet found themselves again at the doorstep of the Temple of Iron.  Yeah, Jones has calculus class right now, but what he wants to do right now isn’t learning.  What he wants to do is tone his bod.
  
Minutes blend into hours, and hours melt into days, and days blink into weeks, and finally weeks combine into months.  Throughout this time, Jones lifts the whole time.  The weights he lifts steadily increase, further and further.  

One day, Jones goes into the gym, and a guy prepares to do a max set.  A max set is when someone tries to do the absolute most amount of weight without caring about the number of repetitions.  Often, doing this alone is very dangerous, because there is a real possibility of not being able to get the weight up and the bar crushing the weightlifter.  

“Hey,” the guy says to Jones.

By this time, the amount of lifting Jones had done constantly throughout the past couple months had increased the testosterone in his blood.  He was no longer the polite small boy he was before.  He is now a true testosterone-addled Big Boy.  And as a result, any sort of contact immediately made him instinctually try to assert himself as an alpha male.  But Jones, having an IQ of over 100, manages to control his impulses.

“Can you spot me for my set?  Sorry, let me introduce myself.  I’m Brian,” the dude says.

“Sure. By the way, my name’s Jones.”

As an acknowledgement of each other, they shake each other’s hands firmly, the way Jones’s dad would have been proud of.  

The weights have already been loaded up on the bench.  Three 45-pound plates on each side of the bar: this combines to give you 315 pounds on the bench.  The three-plate benchmark is one that many a lifter strives for.  First, it’s the road to one plate.  Then, it’s the grind to two plates.  And finally, the milestone of three plates.

Brian first relaxes.  One breath in, one breath out.  His massive muscles go slack.  Brian lays back on the bench, closes his eyes, and places his hands on the bar.  His eyes open, and a crazy glint of aggression flashes in them.  He lifts the bar up, and then lets it go down to his chest, breathing in as he does it.  Then he begins to push, pushing air out as hard as his pectorals are pushing.  The first wave of effort pushes the bar up about halfway, but the bar stagnates there.  Then, with a dogged determination, Brian takes the bar all the way to the top, and then puts it to rest on the rack.  He gets up, with tears streaming down his face, and hugs Brian.  

“I have been working for this for so long!!!!!!” Brian says.

“Congratulations!” says Jones.

“When I was 10 years old, I went to the gym with my dad.  He showed me around, and taught me how to do the body weight exercises, the treadmill, and core workouts.  I enjoyed that time I spent with my father, and I idolized his physical ability.  But what I always remembered the most, the thing that stuck firmly the most in my mind was the image of my father benching three plates.  Ever since then, all I have ever wanted to do was match that.  My father currently has a hurt shoulder, and as a result hasn’t been able to lift in a while.  In a way, by doing this weight, I am living up to his example but also lifting for him, since he cannot now.  I am proud of this moment, that I could do this.”

Jones is left speechless.  He had known that lifting was as beautiful as the most beautiful dance.  He had known that lifting more weights would improve one’s attractiveness.  But what he did not know was how weightlifting could bring people together.  How it could bring families together.  And how it could give someone something to live for.  And now, he knew he had to redouble his efforts to lift.  He had to lift for all the people who came before him as well as all the people who would lift after him.  He had to become stronger.  

Jones becomes good friends with Brian afterwards.  They lift every day: leg day, chest day, arms day, back day, all of it.  And slowly but surely Jones becomes stronger, so much so that he is about as strong as Brian.  

At an eating club party Jones sees a girl.  He approaches her, interested.

“Hi, what’s your name?” Jones says.

The girl scans him up and down.  Then gets a distasteful look in her face.

“Eh, not interested,” she answers.

Jones looks down at his body.  He had started off as a scrawny boy. He had gone past the realm of physical attractiveness.  Indeed, past what even Terrence would have wanted to have become.  So, he does not feel any sadness over this rejection.  It is as if his body knows that at this level of muscle, he could not possibly be attractive to the other gender.  But there are no regrets.  He has come this far, and he is proud of it.

And under this experience, Jones realizes.  The Truth is that once you reach a certain level of lifting prowess, it is no longer about the girls, or the aesthetic of lifting, or the self-expression.  At the highest level, it’s not to impress the girls: it is to impress other guys.

