---
layout: post
title: MIXTHREE
permalink: /stories/mixthree
---


“So I’ve got this new thing,” Rhee says.

“God, are you serious? I’ve had to deal with this all day.  Rhee thinks this SO funny,” Wendy says to Jinn as she rolls her eyes.

“What?” Jinn asks Rhee.

“So basically, what you do is you take something, anything, and then you just make a bad comparison out of it.”

“Tsk,” Wendy clicks as she throws her pencil on the table in front of her.  The math problem she’s doing is a bit too hard for her at the moment with Rhee being distracting again.

“Like how?” Jinn asks.

Looking at Wendy, Rhee replies, “Wendy is distracted right now, like a free throw shooter in basketball seeing a poster of his face in the crowd!”

“What? That’s so stupid,” Jinn replies.

But Jinn’s reaction is all in vain, as Rhee continues to raucously laugh on her own.

“I want a boyfriend so badly right now,” Wendy says.

Rhee and Jinn look at Wendy.  This is all that she’s been saying the past five years or so.

“Sure, that would be nice.  But we aren’t trying to be one of those corporate monkey salarywomen, so we can’t,” Jinn says.

“Yeah, I know we can’t date if we don’t want to let the media feast on us for it later, but I just want one!”

“Boy ban or trash can!” Jinn chants.

“Boy ban or trash can!” Jinn repeats.

“Boy ban or trash can,” Rhee confirms, while giggling.

“Alright, alright!  Boy ban or trash can,” Wendy confirms.

“We’ve spent enough time talking here, let’s go over to the auditorium and get used to the stage before auditioning.  We have to perform well at the auditions if we want the talent agency scouts to take us in,” Rhee says.

“Yeah, don’t be like those guys who performed last year and laughed off the stage by the scouts,” Wendy says.

“Oh oh oh, I remember that! Yo, one of them was in my dancing class last semester, and we were learning hip-hop at the time. We’re learning some choreography, and at some point we had to do a body roll.  That dude did a body roll like this--” Jinn demonstrates by vigorously swinging her head forward and backwards. 

“Chill!  Don’t make fun of people like that!” Rhee says, while Wendy cracks up.

“How do you get to your third year here while staying so incompetent? HAHAHAHA,” Wendy sneers.

As their conversation ends, they arrive at the auditorium.  It’s mostly empty, except for a few casually dressed people sitting at the front, watching another group that is currently auditioning.  All of them are from the major K-pop talent agencies: SM, JYP, YG, etc.  This school, Juilliard-K, invites scouts every year for this special event: Idol Talent Showcase.  Students are encouraged to form into groups, and with which they are to either cover existing K-pop performance routines which contain dance, singing, and rapping, or they can even come up with their own pieces and perform those.  

Jinn, Rhee and Wendy file in backstage and get their bearings.  One of the most important things as a performer is to really “take ownership” of the space that is afforded to you, to exude confidence and cast aside any doubts.  A way to prepare to do that is to get used to the space because it’s easier to “take ownership” of something that is familiar rather than something that is not.

The audition before them ends, and the three girls walk onto the stage.  The music starts to kick in, and they perform.  

“You know, I’ve heard a lot of things about this group, and they really don’t disappoint,” a scout mentions.

“Yeah, I’ve heard they are the three top students in their year.  They are great talents, for sure.  They are one-in-five years types.”

“This is actually better than I expected.  Excellent singing, excellent dancing, excellent everything.”

One of the administrators of the school sits behind the scouts, eavesdropping on what they are saying.  He is their guidance counselor, which for students in the Idol Training Program basically amounts to being their unofficial manager.  He finds it all darkly amusing.  True, these three are rare talents, but would the scouts be as happy with these girls if they met them?  They don’t have typical idol personalities, after all.  And they refuse to act like typical idols too.

He thinks back to when he tried to advise them to develop personas, like maybe a cute persona, a fierce persona, or whatever.  By developing a curated personality, one can often appeal to a wider group of people, and appeal to them more strongly.  But ultimately, those three didn’t take the advice seriously.  Rhee just laughed the entire meeting, Jinn said “only shitters have to do that”, and Wendy said, “that’s gross, I’m not 10 years old”.  Perhaps they would become successful in the future despite it.  Perhaps they would become successful because of it, by being unique in an idol landscape dominated by the same personalities everywhere.  Or maybe they would face failure and be forced to take his advice.  The administrator would admit that he’d like to see these three humbled a bit, particularly Jinn and Wendy.

The SM scout says, “We originally came here to find trainees.  But these girls are better than the trainees that we have.  I’m thinking that instead of making them go through the usual route, we can do something a little special.”

The JYP scout responds, “What do you have in mind?  I mean, whatever offer you give them, I’ll one-up it.”

The YG scout expresses similar sentiments.

“I’m thinking that we can put them into MIXTHREE.”

A shocked silence descends on the two other scouts.

“MIXTHREE?  Are you kidding me?  You can’t just be a part of MIXTHREE without paying your dues as a trainee!”

“Are you saying you want to hold them back from debuting?  You want them to go through the traditional route to give the world several years fewer of their brilliance?”

“…”

“MIXTHREE is going to produce the greatest idol group ever created.  How can these three, without formal idol training, represent all three of us?  Rookies can’t be given such a large responsibility!  The MIXTHREE winners are going to be under all three of our banners, you know!”

“It’s a risk we have to take.  Think of the payoffs.  If we pull this off, we’ll be hailed as geniuses.”

“…”

“So it’s been decided!  We will put them into MIXTHREE!”

-break-
“Wow, so I guess we were somehow taken by SM, YG, and JYP altogether.  That’s a little weird, right?” Wendy says.

“Weird, but it’s certainly better than getting an offer from some random studio.  It could definitely be worse, we could have just only gotten into Jellyfish or something LOL,” Jinn remarks.

“Hey, Jellyfish is a good label too! They aren’t one of the big three but they are respectable in their own right,” Rhee protests.

“It says we are going to be a part of an idol selection show called MIXTHREE, and the top nine are going to be selected to debut as part of a group under the banners of all three studios,” Wendy continues.

“So we’ve got to compete.  But we’ve gotten past the trainee stage.  That’s definitely good and a little surprising,” Jinn comments.

“I’m a little nervous, what if I don’t make it?  Or if one of us doesn’t make it while the others do?  I don’t want us to fragment our group,” Rhee worries.

“Sandbagger Rhee,” Jinn interjects.

“Rhee, I know you hate jinxing things, but gtfo, we are making it,” Wendy says.	

Rhee pouts.  “What are we going to be asked to do?  Is it just the usual dancing, singing, rapping?” she asks.

Wendy, already tired of holding the invitation and having to spell things out for everyone, responds, “Well, it will definitely include that, but I think there will be other things as well.  Look here, it says that we’ll be doing dance, singing, rapping, but that we’ll be ‘showcasing our idol-like qualities’ to show how suited we are.”

“Sounds sus,” Jinn says.

“Sus a.f,” Rhee adds helpfully.

“Super sus,” Wendy concludes.

-break-
The bright lights shine down onto the stage, and twenty girls stand where the lights point.  

“Wellllllllllcome to MIXTHREE!  We are here to decide which of these 21 talented girls will be a part of the new girl group Miss U!  Here they are..”

The MC proceeds to introduce each of the girls, and asks each of them to list one interesting fact about themselves.

The first girl says, “My name is Jungyeon, and I love cooking and playing with dogs!  Please treat me well!”

The second girl says, “My name is Mina, and I like to draw!  I hope I live up to everyone’s expectations!”

After a few more introductions, it was Wendy, Rhee, and Jinn’s turn.

“I play some Yugioh in my spare time, and I’m in the top 1% of players.  If you want to challenge me, look up my username: [censored].  I am the strongest Exodia player alive.” Wendy says as she stares with intensity into the camera.

“Do you know the internet slang style where you use random capital letters and lowercase letters to make the tone of the word weird?  I’m the first person to have done it: KnowYourMeme even gave me credit for it,” Rhee mentions.

“I’m the player Zezima from Runescape,” Jinn says. 

After their introductions, the contestants are then taken on cars to the dorms, where they’ll be living.  Interestingly, the dorm is divided up into multiple colors: one portion is colored red, one is colored yellow, and one is colored blue.  There aren’t a lot of clues on what these things mean, so Rhee, Wendy, and Jinn just pick blue because it’s the least noisy color and set up in a blue triple.  After all the contestants are done setting up, they are called to the main meeting area.

“You all must have noticed that the dorms are divided into colors.  This is because each color corresponds to a mentor that you are going to be assigned.  Blue team gets G-Dragon, red team gets Suzy, and yellow team gets Sunmi.”

The contestants are all excited over their mentor assignments.  After all, these are some of the biggest names in the industry.  For the trio, meeting G-Dragon is awesome: he’s one of the most successful solo artists to emerge from an idol group.  They each want to eventually become soloists in the future, so making connections with him is important if they want advice.

“You will go through various evaluations, some of which you will be trained up for by your mentors and some of which you will have to do impromptu.  Each evaluation corresponds to a round.  After each round, the mentors of each team can trade their members and are required to eliminate one of their members.  The rounds will continue until each team has three members left.  Those remaining get to debut as part of Miss U.”

“Then, the teams will get another chance to trade.  The teams will undergo another evaluation, which will be a competition of sorts, and the winning team gets to each get promoted as solo artists.”

Wendy, Jinn, and Rhee’s ears perk up at the last detail.  A chance to be promoted as solo artists without having done the group thing?  That’s a chance of a lifetime.  While idol groups in K-pop are often restricted creatively, where they must abide by their concepts and must pay attention to the allocation of lines, solo artists are not similarly restricted.  They can do whatever is best for themselves musically.  In addition, income for groups is divided among the group; solo artists don’t have to divide with anyone.

“The first evaluation is a classical K-pop performance.  You will each perform an iconic piece.  This will showcase your singing, dancing, and perhaps rapping skills depending on what song you end up working on.  Be sure to work hard on your rehearsals!”

The groups retreat into their groups and start rehearsing.  They start with the choreography; they learn dance moves one step at a time.

After some time, Rhee turns towards Wendy and says, “I think I’m starting to feel a little sick.”

“What? All we’ve done is dance.  You can’t get motion sickness off this,” Wendy responds.

“Actually, I felt pretty nauseous during the van ride because it was a long ride and kind of bumpy.”

“But it should be gone by now, right?”

“It subsided a little when we got to the dorms, but I’ve felt weird ever since I started dancing.”

“How bad is it?”

“I think I can throw up any minute now.”

“!!!! Dude, we need to get to the bathroom right now!”

“I, I, can’t hold it in any longer.  I’m gonna puke.”

“!!!!”

Wendy, under a flash of inspiration, pushes Rhee towards a corner of the room, where there is a lot of equipment and props.  Rhee, despite being mentally incapacitated by her nausea, understands the implication and pukes behind the props and equipment, where they won’t be detected easily.  Rhee returns back to the group all before they start up the dance practicing again.

“It’s a good thing you thought of that, Wendy, because my life as an idol would have been over without what you did there.”

“Yeah, I got you.”

“I think we’re in the clear now.”

After an hour or so of dancing, the blue team has basically learned all the choreography.

G-Dragon says, “Now that we’re done with the dance portion, let’s practice the singing portion.  Hey, Mina, could you go to that corner over there and pick up a few microphones?  We’re not going to plug them in, but we’re going to hold them while singing to try to mimic on-stage performance.”

“Uhhh, hey, G-Dragon, I’ve got it!  No problems.  I can get the microphones,” Rhee nervously interjects.

“Really?  Alright then.  Rhee, you can get the microphones.”

Rhee goes over to the corner.  She looks around for the microphones and spots them.  There are five microphones.  Four of them are clean, but unfortunately one of them is completely covered.  She grimaces.  Her career is going to ride on how well she can convince G-Dragon there are only four microphones.  She closes her eyes and calms herself down.  You can do this, Rhee!  You’ve got this, Rhee!  Meanwhile, Wendy  has already filled in Jinn on the details.  They glance worriedly over towards Rhee.

Rhee approaches G-Dragon with the microphones.

“Oh, where’s the last microphone?”

“Yeah, uh, I only saw four there.”

“Really?  Hmm, maybe the staff members forgot to put one there.”

“Maybe, I mean this isn’t a televised segment so they aren’t as careful.”

“Yeah, you might be right.”

G-Dragon, satisfied with the explanation, allows the rehearsal to proceed.  The rest of the rehearsal proceeds without any hiccups, and everyone goes back to their rooms.  Except for Rhee, Jinn, and Wendy.

“Why aren’t you guys going back?” G-Dragon asks.

“We wanted to stay behind and practice a little more,” explains Wendy.

“Ah, you guys are the three superhyped people coming in from Julliard-K right?  You guys have talent and you have such a great attitude.  The future of K-pop will be in good hands with you guys.”

“Yeah, we do our best!” Rhee laughs nervously.

G-Dragon leaves, and they run straight to the janitor closet that is helpfully inside the rehearsal room, take out the materials, and clean the mess up.  Feeling a little guilty, they also clean up the rest of the room.  It’s only right, after all.

The next day, G-Dragon comes into the room before the rehearsal to get everything set up.  

“Wow, the janitors did a really good job today with the cleaning!”

-break-
It has been a few rounds, and now they are down to the last three contestants for each team.  Blue Team has been dominating all the competitions.  And the mentors’ contracts have an incentive-based pay-scale, so the more rounds they win the more money they’re paid.  Therefore, G-Dragon did not want to trade away his moneymaking trio, because they were good.

To address this, at a posh meeting room at the top floor of M-net (a TV network), network executives and the mentors in the show are sitting together at a large table.

“Look, G-Dragon, we can’t just have the same team win every single week.  There’s no drama in this.  Our ratings are dipping.  Look at the Tweets coming out about MIXTHREE these days!  ‘Why does this show even exist if blue team always wins’,” a network executive pleads.

“My contract says that I make more if I win more rounds,” G-Dragon says.

“Jesus, it’s not all about the money!  We’re trying to entertain here!”

“Well, talking about entertainment, every viewer would know if I traded away my three strongest members that I would just be doing things for TV’s stake instead of doing it for winning!  Doesn’t that contradict the whole point of reality TV?”

“…You’re right,” the executive answers.

“I don’t want the show to be boring either!  But what can I do?” G-Dragon says.

One junior executive, who doesn’t normally raise his voice, answers timidly, “We…we could just change the rules.  Decide in the middle of the show that all the teams must be randomly reshuffled.  That’s pretty natural, right?  And then we can say it was random, but purposely put those three in separate teams.”

“Shut up, you youngling!” some senior executive answers.

“Wait, wait, that’s actually a good idea,” muses the lead executive in the room.

As a result, they restructure the contracts of the mentors and “reshuffle” the teams.

-break-
Wendy, Jinn, and Rhee are separated: Wendy stays in blue, Jinn goes to red, and Rhee goes to yellow.  Now that a lot of the contestants have been cut, and the fact that this is the last round of the show, the venue has moved to a new, much more extravagant place.  There’s still three different colors, but each color has three rooms, each room with amazing amenities.  They are rooms that only true idols get to live in, which is appropriate, because everyone at this stage is an idol already.  

Since they have been together since they were in preschool, it is a little shocking to them that they must compete against one another.  But the ratings for MIXTHREE are jumping through the roof now.

They stand together, at the top floor of the venue, overlooking the city. 
 
“Maybe it’s better this way,” says Wendy.

“Yeah, I’m also really glad.  We’ve all wanted to be solo artists since we were young, and being a part of a girl group is just a step to that.  If one of us can become a solo artist, that beats none of us being a solo artist,” Rhee notes.

“Yeah, but it also means one of us is going to get ahead of the others.  No matter how you sugarcoat it, it doesn’t feel great,” Wendy says.

“Yeah, it’s not great.  But if I can get out of the stupid girl group stage and go straight to my goal, you better bet I’ll take the opportunity,” Jinn says.

“I don’t know, are we really ready to become solo artists at this time?  We’re good, but don’t we need some experience?” Rhee asks.  

Wendy interjects, “Yeah, but being a solo artist means dating rules are more relaxed.”

Jinn and Rhee stare at Wendy and decide they won’t entertain that remark with a response.  There’s a brief silence.  

“This also lets us see who’s the best out of all of us,” Jinn notes.

They all stiffen up.  All three of them see themselves as the best, and each of them also knows the others think they are the best.  This would be a chance to finally settle the pecking order.

“You’re right, Jinn.  I’m not holding anything back this time.  None of us should hold anything back,” Wendy says.

“Yep.  Now that it’s come to this, let’s have a good, fair battle.  No hard feelings regardless of the outcome, alright?” Rhee says.

They all hum in affirmation, go back to their teams, and they lead their teams in their rehearsals, determined to win.  

-break-
Rhee’s group, Yellow Group, starts working with Sunmi to prepare for their last performance.  They will be performing the song “Lady” by EXID, which is a retro-themed song that came out in the last few months.  There is a fire burning in Rhee’s eyes.  

“There’s a tough high note in this song.  Who wants it?” Sunmi asks.

“I’ll take it,” Rhee responds. 

“Who wants the rap parts?”

Rhee raises her hand.

“You can’t just do everything, Rhee.  This is a three-person group. You have to work together, even if they are not your close friends.  You’re going to debut soon, it’s time to start acting a little more professional,” Sunmi chides.

Rhee starts to blush, embarrassed by her show of selfishness.

“You’re right.  Sorry.”

“No, it’s fine as long as you understand,” Sunmi responds.

They begin to practice, but it becomes apparent quickly that the other two members of the group, while great were getting outshined by Rhee.  As a three-person group, it’s important to be roughly equal because inequalities begin to overshadow the performance and detracts from it.

The clock strikes 7 PM.  “Let’s just end rehearsal here, we’ll pick it up tomorrow,” says Sunmi. 

The other two members are clearly frustrated.  They, too, want to do well!  But it’s difficult to do everything perfectly, to get the rhythms of the rap down pat, to get the facial expressions correct, to dance with feeling.  However, as Sunmi leaves and the two members begin to leave, Rhee grabs both of them.

Rhee offers, “Why don’t we keep working together a little while longer?  I’ll show you guys some of my secret tricks…”

-break-

Wendy starts training with her Blue Group.  They are going to perform the song “Boss” by NCT, which is a song with a difficult dance, and average singing and rapping parts.  G-Dragon begins by allocating parts.  

“Who wants the rap part by Mark?” G-Dragon asks.

Silence reigns.

“Uh, how about you, Wendy?” G-Dragon asks.

Wendy glances away.  Rhee and Jinn aren’t around here anymore!  What is the proper way to behave?  Somehow, it’s difficult to have confidence in what she’s doing, saying, or thinking when none of her friends are around her.

“Y-yeah, that works.”

Despite Wendy being the most talented one in this group, she ended up with her parts reluctantly, as if she was afraid to take them.

G-Dragon pulls the other two members aside.

“We need to try to get her to feel comfortable.  She’s doesn’t seem herself without the other two she’s always around,” G-Dragon says.

“Why don’t we take her out to dinner tonight?  Do some karaoke, get her to loosen up a little?” one of the members suggests.

“Great idea!”

They invite Wendy, and she immediately lights up.  Before meeting Jinn and Rhee, she didn’t really have friends and still doesn’t have friends outside of Jinn and Rhee, so being invited by other people was very noteworthy and cool for her.

-break-

Jinn starts her rehearsal with Red Group.  The song that this group is performing is “Gee” by Girl’s Generation.  This is very catchy song with an easy dance and vocals that are not too difficult.  However, what makes performing this piece difficult is all the little details that one has to pay attention to, as is often the case when performing anything that isn’t technically difficult.  The difficulty lies in the emotion when performing.

Unfortunately, with Jinn, showing sufficient emotion and getting into the piece is not something she’s great at.  She’s at her best when the piece is technically challenging with high notes and difficult dances, not when the piece is easy and has room for interpretation.  So while she nailed all the technical aspects, her interpretation aspects left something lacking.  Watching her perform “Gee” didn’t make you think of an idol performing a song, it made you think of a robot executing its task.

Suzy says, “Why don’t you try to portray more emotion?”

Jinn gets visibly annoyed.  “Everyone’s been telling me that.  I’m trying!”

Another member says, “You just portrayed the emotion of being annoyed!  Why don’t you just kind of use a similar sort of process for the other emotions?”

Jinn thinks a little.  Then she tries to do a cute smile.  It’s a hit.

“There!  That’s great!  Alright, we’ve got this performance in the bag,” Suzy says.

-break-

“The final challenge is another performance!  However, this time, it’s going to be done in front of a real-life audience, and we will determine the winner through SMS text votes!” the MC announces.

Jinn, as someone who was really experienced with computers through making bots to play Runescape for her, realizes that this is an opportunity.  She can just make a bot to send SMS text votes for her own team.  Of course, it wouldn’t be good to win by a huge number of votes, because then the fraud would be detected.  So, it is better to send a large, but plausible number of fake votes for her team.

One might say that plays like this are unethical and don’t really capture who is really the best out of the three of them.  If she were to win off this trick, it doesn’t give her the pride of success.  But that’s the reasoning of losers.  Part of being an idol is to be savvy in promoting oneself.  Fake personas, nose jobs, and learning foreign languages are all ways to become popular that don’t involve talent.  Why can’t computer skills be a part of that?

However, Jinn is deeply mistaken if she thinks that she’s the only one with a trick up her sleeve.  Wendy knew about Jinn’s skills at hacking things.  She also knows that Jinn hates using door locks, preferring to prop doors open so that she doesn’t get locked out if she leaves her room key inside.  So, when she saw Jinn leaving her room, she ran inside and went to her computer.  The password is the same as the one she uses for all her other things: MyDogsNameIsDog.  She locates the folder labelled “macros” and finds the program Jinn is going to use to hack the voting.  Wendy changes a few lines of code, closes the window, then logs out of the computer, and discreetly ran out of the room.  Now, all the votes will go to Wendy!

Rhee, on the other hand, is suspicious that the other two have done something, but doesn’t want to get into any cheating.  However, she doesn’t want Jinn to be able to win because she cheated.  So, she decides to do the right thing: sneak into Jinn’s room and change the code so that no extra votes go to anyone.  She then decides to mess with Jinn’s Runescape quest guides as punishment for trying to cheat.  To do this, she discreetly corrupts the files in the folder without detection.

Jinn had anticipated that Wendy would try something, and had written a backup script that was put into the folder labelled “Runescape quest guides”.  She “knew” that neither of the others would have wanted to go into a folder like that, because they hate Runescape.  After coming back to her room, she looks at her bait script, and sees the changes, while the Runescape looked like it wasn’t even touched.  Those idiots didn’t even try thinking more than one step ahead.  As usual, the other two are playing checkers while the game is actually 4-D chess!

Then the day of the competition came.  All three teams perform excellently, and it’s difficult to think of who deserves to win.  However, Jinn’s plan is about to unfold.  The show opens up the voting system via SMS, and the votes start to pour in.  Jinn’s program begins to execute.  However, instead of Jinn’s votes opening a gap between the other two, everyone’s votes start to accelerate.  Is there a bug in the code?  Every team’s votes are increasing due to the program.  Jinn starts to sweat.  If her team doesn’t get a 50-vote gap on the other two, the program won’t pause or terminate.  So, if the code is increasing everyone’s votes, it might never terminate!

Jinn watches with wide eyes as the plan starts to fall apart.  Rhee and Wendy also sense something is wrong, and quickly realize what happened, and start getting nervous.  The producers also realize something’s wrong, and shut down the voting system.

-break-

Luckily, as idols, no one really expected them to be the ones to tamper with it.  So, after Jinn, tech-savvy as usual, destroyed all traces of her involvement, no one suspected them.  The competition was determined to be a tie, and all the money was split between every member of every team.  

Wendy, Jinn, and Rhee are walking in the halls, and somehow find themselves face to face with each other. 

“Hey, good match guys.  Looks like technological issues made it so we couldn’t determine a winner, but I think all of our performances were worthy of victory,” Jinn says, with a well-hidden smirk on her face.  Neither of Rhee or Wendy buy it, of course.

“Yeah, good match.  It was a good experience.  I’m just happy our competition was clean and fair,” Wendy responds.

“Definitely.  Cheating in a serious competition is bad, bad like the way salmon tastes when a chef doesn’t know that meat continues to cook after it has been taken out of the pan,” Rhee adds.

They continue staring at each other with straight faces, and then begin bursting out in laughter.

“I can’t believe my code had a bug in it!” Jinn complains.

“What? I messed with it, didn’t I?” Wendy says.

“Yeah, but I changed it so it wouldn’t do anything,” Rhee adds.

“No, I had a backup that was hidden from you guys,” Jinn explains.

“Ohhhhhh,” Wendy realizes.

“Yeah, that script was a decoy, I put the real script into my Runescape quest folder,” Jinn responds.

“Oh…uh…I actually corrupted that folder with a sneaky computer virus,” Rhee says.

“Ohhhhhhhhh,” the other two react.

“Hey guys, no hard feelings?  Friends again?” Rhee asks, “I kinda felt lonely without you guys.”

“Yeah, so did I.  We might all think we’re better than each other, but in the end, I think we’re happier together,” Wendy says.

“Agreed,” Jinn confirms.

“Great!  Let’s go find the other girls.  We have to get to know them, since they are our new group-mates after all.  I’m excited to debut!” Rhee says.

The girls search together for the other future members of Miss U, as well as for the beginnings of a new adventure that they are going to embark on, as a newly debuting idol group.

