---
layout: post
title: The Review Club Chapter 1
permalink: /stories/review1
---

Aaron picks nervously at his food.  It’s leftovers from last night.  Meatball spaghetti stuffed inside a thermos to keep it warm, alongside a container of vegetables kept cold by an ice pack tied to it.  Aaron’s mother cooked it for him last night because it’s his favorite dish; today is a big day.

Aria slides into a seat in front of him, holding a tray.  What’s on it is classic cafeteria food.  In the middle, a burger sits with stale buns and a bland patty covered in the weakest cheese ever served.  A diet soda—only diet versions of sodas are allowed at school nowadays—and a side of droopy fries accompany the burger.  

“Get this.  I’ve just heard some interesting things about Winston and Sharon.”

“Whaaaaaaat? Tell me.” 

“It turns out that they just started dating.”

“No way, they’re always fighting with each other!  How are they together now?”

“I got this from Winston’s friend, James.  Apparently, they were fake fighting in public so people wouldn’t know they were a thing and tell their parents.”

“Wow, how romantic.  I guess they don’t care anymore about their parents now?”

“…”

Despite the juicy gossip, neither of them are really engaged in the conversation.  It just isn’t the same today.  Nothing is the same today.

About 30 seconds after the conversation dies, Gerald plops down at the table with a plate of food.  He cooked it himself, after going into the teacher’s lounge and cooking his food at the kitchen there.  It’s the best food anyone at the table has.

“How about the Kingston decisions coming out, guys?  Exciting day, wouldn’t you say?” Gerald exclaims.

Everyone jolts a little.  They all applied there early, hoping to go to school together.  But no one wants to talk about this right now.  Aria gives Aaron a quick exasperated look.  Aaron nods knowingly.  

“Oh yeah, they are coming out.”

Gerald, sensing something off, tries to change the topic. 

“How about Winston and Sharon being together now?” Gerald asks.

“Yeah, we were just talking about it,” answers Aria.

“How much do you know?” Aaron asks.

“Everything.  I got it all from Sharon’s friend.”

“Oh, so you know the whole story.  It’s crazy, isn’t it?” 

“…”

No one has the mental energy to carry a conversation today.  All five of them eat with scattered, uninspired conversation to pass the time until lunch is over.  After school, they wait for 3:00 pm, the time when decisions are supposed to be released.  Normally, they like to all go to Aaron and Gerald’s common room, since it is huge and has a lot of things to do.  There are multiple game consoles, several comfortable sofas, and a large TV occupying the space.

But no one wants to be in there when the decisions drop, God forbid they get rejected and don’t take it well.

The clock hits 3:00 pm.

The first one to get through the portal on Kingston’s website is Gerald.  This makes sense, because his internet is faster than anyone else’s in the school.

"It’s a good thing that Uncle made my internet fast, since this portal is trash.  I bet the others are taking forever to get through."

Gerald smirks and strokes his rich, smooth, golden hair back as he tilts his chair backwards.  There is no reason for him to be stressed.  After all, this acceptance had been in the bag since before he was born.

It’s only natural to get in if your dad donated a building to the school.  Not to mention I’m a 5th generation legacy, with each generation having donated a building to the school.  I probably could have failed all my classes, gotten arrested a few times, and still gotten in!

He did not fail five classes.  In fact, he’s had straight A’s since he was in elementary school.  He also had never disobeyed an order in his life, let alone committed a crime.  

Gerald thought back to his application.  The essay prompt that he chose was:

After the end of the Civil War, the university president at the time, Frederick Holmes, gave a speech to graduates to ask them to contribute to the unity of newly united Union.  Talk about a time when you resolved conflict and as a result made something stronger.  

The essay that he submitted was:

-Bacon  
-Eggs  
-Lettuce  
-Sandwich bread  
-Ground pork  
-Salmon  
-Cereal  

He figured, sarcastically, a grocery list would be appropriate for the prompt because cooking would unite the ingredients into a delicious dish.  Gerald knew he was a lock to be accepted.  It didn’t matter what his essay was.  Truthfully, if he told his dad to ask the admissions office to waive his requirement to apply, they probably would have done it.

But the word that shows up on his screen isn’t “Congratulations”.  A “Thank you for applying.  We had a lot of competitive applicants this year…” stoically plants itself in the middle of the computer screen.

Aria gets through the portal.  She’s around a group of people: some of them admiring underclassmen, some of them boys who admire her, and some of them her classmates.  

Aria has always been popular.  First, she’s accomplished and talented, so underclassmen admire her as a role model.  Second, she’s agreeable, so she’s well-liked among her peers.  Third, she’s both attractive and a great conversationalist, so she’s popular with the boys.  

Her computer, like Gerald’s, also holds a fast connection.  Some of the programming-oriented boys who like her somehow boosted her connection speed, at the cost of their own.  Ah, young love.  

“Oh, I hope you get in, Aria!” 

“Yeah, if anyone can do it, you can!”

Aria responds, “Oh, I don’t know.  There’s a loooot of people who applied.  They’re all really smart.  It’s ok even if I don’t get it.  I don’t really know if I really deserve to get in.” 

Yeah, like hell I’m getting rejected.  I’m rank one at this school, I’m nationally recognized as a hip-hop dance phenom, I did an internship at a Big 4 software company when I was a sophomore in high school, and was even a line cook at a Michelin-starred ramen place in Japan last summer because my grandpa wanted me to preserve my Japanese culture.
She always felt a little insecure about anything to do with culture, though, because she’s also half-White…

The page loads, and at the top, it says “Congratulations”.  The group of people around her erupt.

“Wow! Great job, Aria!”

“I knew you could do it!”

“I’m so happy for you!”

“Will you go to prom with me????”

Aria completely ignores the last question. 

Like what?? Consider the time and place, you mongrel.

 “Oh my gosh!!! I’m so excited!!! I can’t believe I got in!!!  I need to tell my mom!” Aria exclaims. 

Yep, I knew it.  How could they possibly reject me?

Aria runs out of the area where people gathered around her, and turns around a corner.  She dials her phone, and starts a group call with her mother and father.  

“Hey mom and dad, I got in.”

“Oh, nice.  Thought it would happen,” says her father.

“Yeah, no surprises there,” adds her mother. 
“Come on, guys!  Can’t you guys show some excitement or emotion?”

“Oh.  Yay!  Hooray!”

“Wow! I’m so surprised!”

Aria hangs up.  Of course, it’s expected, but wouldn’t it be nice for the people who she actually respects to be excited for her for a change?

Aaron gets through the portal. He taps his feet, taps his hands, as if his entire body were a metronome.  Doing this won’t help the page load faster, but this is what jittery people do.  

He had done all that he could.  Aaron has been pretty good at school up to this point, finishing in the 90th percentile at his school.  He had high SAT scores.  But perhaps more important than all of that was an actual desire to do better for the world.  Aaron volunteered, rather than “volunteered”.  Instead of doing some sitting around some library and doing his homework there to get hours, he would go clean the community (gaining a gym rat’s physique as a result, though he’ll tell you he didn’t do it for that), go to prisons and educate the inmates, call congressmen regularly to campaign for social justice, the whole shebang.  And he would do these things without getting volunteer hours signed off.  He did it all for an actual desire for good.

In fact, one of the inmates told him, “I looked at you, a Chinese boy with little eyes, and thought you were here with wrong intentions.  Probably here to look good for college or something.  But you came in here and changed my life.  You’ve taught me all sorts of things, like old English, physics, math.  But the most important thing you taught me was an appreciation for truth. I feel closer to this world that I thought had rejected me.  Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you,” with tears running down his eyes.

Aaron always tears up when he recalls that memory.

His intentions must be emphasized, because people like him are not common, especially not in the Ivy League (except for maybe Columbia?).  However, what’s good for college applications is not always what is good for society.  Not recording volunteer hours was a rookie mistake.  Not starting his own nonprofit was a rookie mistake.  What he did doesn’t demonstrate “leadership” clearly enough.  But Aaron just wanted to do good the most efficient way, not the way that would look the best.  As his grandfather always told him, “There’s a lot of stuff that’s wrong out there.  What we’ve got to do is make it better!”

Aaron believed, and still believes, that what he did was right.  But as a result, he’s really nervous.  On paper, the things he did were not incredibly impressive.  It’s not a given that the admissions officers would be able to see his hard work and the positive impact he made.  What sounds more impressive, a kid who started a nonprofit that gave shoes to hundreds of people in Africa, or a kid who taught a few inmates how to read Shakespeare?  

The page loads.  “Congratulations”, it says.

Aaron jumps out of his seat, nearly flinging his laptop at the wall; he luckily catches it at the last minute.  

“YESSSSSSSSSSSS!!!! YES YES YES YES YES YES!!! YESSSSSSSSSSSSSS!”

His hands shake as he jumps up and down.  This goes on for a few minutes.

“Oh, right!  I’ve got to tell mom!”

He dials his mother.  

“Mom!!! I got in!!”

His mother, at her office at work, can hardly contain her excitement.

“YESSSSSSSSSSSS!!!! YES YES YES YES YES YES!!! YESSSSSSSSSSSSSS!” exclaims his mother.

Her coworkers look at her, at first confused about what was going on and thinking that she went crazy, but then realize that her son had gotten into Kingston.  They smile at her.  It is supposed to be quiet time in the office for another hour, but they’ll let this pass.  She deserves it.  

“Oh my god, I’m so happy!  All your work ended up paying off!  I’m so glad they appreciated what you did!” 

“This is literally one of the happiest moments of my life!!!” shouts Aaron, “Oh, I should tell dad now! I bet he’s dying to know too.”

He hangs up, and dials his father.

“I got into Kingston! I did it!”

“Good. Job.”

Aaron’s father is a reserved person, and so that was his own way of expressing his bubbling excitement.  To Aaron, that “good job” was one of the best things anyone had ever said to him in his life.  The context, the tone, and the person it came from made those two words mean everything.

“Thanks.”

Meanwhile, Gerald’s losing his composure.  

How did I even get deferred?  Maybe I shouldn’t have submitted a grocery list?  Oh man, dad’s going to be mad if he finds this out.  He’ll have to take time out of his day to call the admissions office, and I’m sure that’s the last thing he wants on his plate right now.

He refreshes the link several times, as if the page will change its result.  Gerald starts to consider his options.  But there aren’t many.  It’s the 21st century.  He can’t just write a “Do you know who I am?” email to the admissions committee.  It would get memed to death if it got out.  Should he apologize and ask to resubmit his essay?  No, that boat has already sailed.  Should he go in person to the office?  The private jet is in the small airport ten minutes away, so he could.  At least this option prevents him and his family from being made a joke.  Should he just take the deferral like a man?  Nah, he’s rich.

Just as he prepares to choose one of the “don’t tell dad options”, a notification shows up on his phone.  An email drops in his inbox from Kingston.  


Dear Gerald,

It has come to my attention that your portal was mistakenly sent a deferral.  As you know, Kingston values its relationship with you and your family deeply, and would never think of rejecting you.  I would like to correct this mistake.  You were admitted into Kingston.  We are very, very, sorry for this mistake, and hope that this does not damage your impression of our school.  If there’s any way I can make it up to you, please let me know.  Here’s to another generation of Blackleys.

Sincerely,
Ranet Japeleye



At first, Gerald feels a little indignant.  But then he zeros in on the sentence “If there’s any way I can make it up to you, please let me know.”  His mood improves, and a sly smile creeps onto his face.

“Hmm, I wonder what I can get for that.”









